Product Description:  Arduino Kiln Controller

Introduction:
The Kiln is for processing neon and plasma artwork.  An electrode is attached to a recycled bottle using glass solder.  The kiln melts the solder and also heats the bottle to drive off moisture and other contaminants while the bottle is held at the required temperature for 20 minutes.  Then, the kiln turns off to prevent hot spots from the element turning back on and off while a vacuum is drawn on the bottle while it is still hot.  After the bottle has cooled completely under vacuum, a mixture is added to the bottle, while the electrode is attached to a plasma globe power source to dynamically adjust the plasma effect.  When the desired effect is attained, the bottle is removed from the gas manifold by melting the tubulation to keep it sealed from air.  The bottle is removed from the kiln.

Operational Requirements:
    - must be able to process the blue bottle: 12”x9”x24” (and smaller bottles)
        - height must include 3” (electrode) and 1” raised platform for bottle
        - must have an air gap between the elements and bottle of 2”
    - must be able to get hot enough to melt glass solder at ??? DegF
    - must be able to get to ??? max temp within 1 hour
    - must not have hot spots to cause glass to break
    - must be able to soak the glass (hold constant heat +-2F) for 20mins
    - must be able to ramp slowly for thick bottles
    - tubulation must be able to reach the pumping station
    - the induction coil must be able to reach the electrode
    - must be mobile to store when not in use (either light or wheels if heavy)
    - no leaking insulation
Device Characteristics:
    - Outside dimensions: ???x???x???
    - Inside dimensions: ???x???x???
    - Weight: ???
    - Power requirements: ???
    - Target Cost: <$100
    - Product Life Time Target: 5yr
    - Operating Temperature (indoor): 32 - 100 DegF
    - Chamber temperature range: ambient + 1000? DegF
    - Ramp up time: 1 hour
    - Soak variance: +-2 DegF
Feature List:
    LCD display
    Indicator lights (2)
    Selector knob
    Controller enclosure
    Arduino
    110V high current Power supply for the heating element
    5V power supply for the Arduino
    Thermocouple
    Thermocouple sensor
    High current switch
    Nichrome heating element
    Uses mains power, 10’ cord
Behavior:
    Knob changes set temp
    Set temp shown on screen while dial is turned and 5 seconds after it stops
    Current temp shown on screen when dial not active
    Heating element turns on when internal temp is below set temp - 2 DegF
    Heating indicator light turns on when heating element is on
    Power indicator light is on when the unit has power

Conventions
//: A To-Be-Determined requirement. Color set by the Comments element type
[ ... ]: Future Feature. Color set by the Identifier element .type


Feature List
    LED display
        Displays 4 digits (temp)
            Must be at least 1” tall
            Must be readable 10’ away for monitoring the process
            Must be illuminated for dark warehouse conditions
        Panel mount (to outside of enclosure)
            Digital line input (from Arduino)
        This number will persist until changed
            HW or SW control of this
    Indicator lights
        Heating light is red
        Power light is another color such as green or blue
    Selector knob (or arrow buttons)
        Output is readable by Arduino
        Panel mount to outside of enclosure near to LED display
    Controller enclosure
        Must be metal and groundable for safety
        Size: ???x???x???
            Must be able to house:
                Arduino
                5V power supply
                110V power supply
                All wiring
    Arduino
        Programmable (write only)
        Inputs:
            Temp from thermocouple
            Set temp from control knob
        Outputs:
            LED display (digital signal of numbers)
            Heating indicator (simple analog signal of power)
    110V high current Power supply for the heating element
        Power these items:
            Heating element
            5V power supply
            Power indicator light
        Power cord is 10’
    5V power supply for the Arduino
        Powers these items:
            Arduino (all 5V items powered through here)
    Thermocouple
        Must reach between mounting hole and enclosure
        Must extend into the chamber enough to read accurate temp
        Must be able to manually move among sample access points to chamber
            (to check evenness of temp)
    Thermocouple sensor
        Input: signal from thermocouple
        Output: digital signal to Arduino
        Power ???
    High current switch
        Controlled by 5V output from Arduino
        Switches high current (???A) from power supply to heating element
    Nichrome heating element
        Length: ???
        Heat produced: ???/hr
    Uses mains power, 10’ cord
        3 prong, with ground

Behavior Definition
Product States
    State: Power on
        Substate: Begin
            No temp has been set
            Heating element will not turn on until a temp is set
        Substate: Ready
            Switch off Heating indicator light
            Look for temp to go below the set temp - 2F
            When met, switch to Heating
        Substate: Heating
            Switch on Heating indicator light
            Heating element is full on
            Look for temp to rise above the set temp + 2F
            When met, switch to Ready
    State: Power off
        Arduino (5V): off
        Indicator lights (5V): off
        Power supplies (5V and 110V): off
        Heating element (110V): off


Interface List
    1) Off <--> On
        No temp is set
        Heating element is off
        Power indicator is on
        Heating indicator is off
        Display shows current temp
        Wait for user to change the set temp
    2) On <--> user adjusts temp
        New temp shows on screen
        Heating element is off
    3) User adjusts temp <--> user stops adjusting temp
        Wait 5 seconds
            if user begins to adjust temp and 5 seconds isn't up, switch to 2)
        (5 seconds is up)
        Begin heating: turn on heating element full
        display toggles between the current temp and the set temp while heating
        Turn Heating indicator on
        Look for user adjusting the temp
            If user adjusts temp:
                Turn off heating element
                Turn off Heating indicator
                Switch to 2)
Command Definition


Command             Description                                                 
Temp adjust



Security
Regulation
Mechanical
Manufacturing



Notes:
Can upgrade to adding another indicator for "ready" when the unit has heated and reached a new temp
Can upgrade to a power switch, to turn on and off the heating states without unplugging.
    This switch can go with to the Arduino, or simple be a safety cutoff between the high currnet switch and Arduino